Despite our best efforts, this post kept being marked as spam by reddit, so we've moved it here for safekeeping.

<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=0 data-line-end=1 ><a id="What_is Gridcoin_0"></a>What is Gridcoin?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="2" data-line-end="3">Gridcoin (GRC) is the <em>cryptocurrency of science</em>. It incentivizes people to dedicate their computing power towards scientific research tackling humanity’s biggest problems, from researching disease cures to climate modeling to mapping asteroids, and it can be used for payments just like any other cryptocurrency. This comes at no additional cost to merchants and users, as this incentivization is baked in at the protocol level. In order for new coins to be minted, scientific research must be done, but to a merchant accepting Gridcoin and selling it, they can ask for $50 USD in Gridcoin, receive it, and turnaround and sell it for the same $50 USD minus whatever fees are charged by their exchange. These fees are often much lower than fees charged by traditional financial institutions (VISA/MC, Paypal, etc). Gridcoin’s transaction fees themselves are incredibly low and predictable as well, much cheaper than other major cryptos. The merchant can, of course, keep the GRC and earn staking rewards as well.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="4" data-line-end="5">Gridcoin uses a novel mechanism called “proof of stake” to secure the network, meaning that it uses less than .01% of the energy used by “proof of work” coins like Bitcoin. It has been around nearly as long too, since 2013! With Gridcoin, you can send money to anybody <em>anywhere</em> in the world in mere seconds. Gridcoin is de-centralized, un-censorable, and fast.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="6" data-line-end="7">We try to make it as <strong>easy as possible</strong> for you to get involved with, earn, and spend Gridcoin, so keep reading to learn how to do that!</p>

<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="6" data-line-end="7"><b>Important: Be cautious! No official or dev will ever request you to send Gridcoin or other crypto, or ask you for a password or your seed.</b> Keep your seed/private keys safe! Be careful about scammers impersonating devs, team-members or official mods. Be careful, scammers are everywhere in the crypto space. Ask one of the moderators in case of any doubt and always be skeptical of somebody who offers "help" but asks you to do so in a private message or other non-public forum</p>

<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=8 data-line-end=9 ><a id="Why_Gridcoin_8"></a>Why Gridcoin?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="10" data-line-end="11">Gridcoin is a great way to:</p>
<ul>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="12" data-line-end="13">Make some money off your spare processing power (your computer is on already, why not get something useful out of it?) while contributing to great causes</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="13" data-line-end="14">Support scientific research with every purchase or sale you make with no additional cost to you.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="14" data-line-end="16">Send money anywhere in the world in seconds with extremely low transaction fees</li>
</ul>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="16" data-line-end="17">As somebody who owns GRC, you are eligible to participate in staking rewards and vote on which scientific research gets funded via Gridcoin polls. You can see which research projects we are currently supporting by looking at our <a href="https://gridcoin.us/guides/whitelist.htm">list of approved projects</a>.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=18 data-line-end=19 ><a id="Where_do_I_keep_my_Gridcoin_how_do_I_get_started_18"></a>Where do I keep my Gridcoin, how do I get started?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="20" data-line-end="21">You keep your Gridcoin in your wallet. The official wallet is available for download from <a href="https://gridcoin.us">gridcoin.us</a> and works on Windows, Mac, and Linux. Check out this step-by-step video for <a href="https://youtu.be/jPu17VuEPvg">installing the wallet</a>. There are also third-party wallets as well like <a href="https://holytransaction.com/">Holy Transaction</a>. Only the official wallet can currently participate in staking rewards. Be sure to backup your wallet, if you lose access to your wallet, you lose access to your GRC!</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="22" data-line-end="23">If you don’t want to use the full desktop wallet, <a href="https://wallet.arikado.ru/">Arikado</a> provides a web-based wallet you can use or the wallet on our discord server. Keep in mind that this means you are trusting the wallet owner to keep your coins for you, so we don’t suggest storing large quantities of GRC this way.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=24 data-line-end=25 ><a id="Where_can_I_buy Gridcoin_24"></a>Where can I buy Gridcoin?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="26" data-line-end="27">If you are outside the US, the easiest way to buy Gridcoin is probably directly through <a href="https://holytransaction.com/">Holytransaction</a> which provides a third-party wallet and on-ramp service (a way to trade your government-issued currency for crypto). There are currently no fiat on-ramps in the US.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="28" data-line-end="29">If you don’t have access to a fiat on-ramp (or would prefer to trade other crypto to get GRC), you will need to first buy another crypto and then trade it for GRC. Popular places to do this are <a href="https://flyp.me">flyp.me</a> and <a href="https://main.southxchange.com/">SouthXchange</a>. You can also check out the trading channel on <a href="https://discord.gg/jf9XX4a">our discord</a> for P2P trades. We are working on getting fiat on-ramps in the US as well, it is surprisingly expensive and difficult to get listed on major exchanges. Note that all these options are provided by third parties and not endorsed by Gridcoin’s developers.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=30 data-line-end=31 ><a id="Can_I_earn_or_mine_Gridcoin_How_What_about_staking_rewards_30"></a>Can I earn or mine Gridcoin? How? What about staking rewards?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="32" data-line-end="33">Absolutely! There are two ways to earn GRC: crunching and staking. Crunching is like mining, but instead of just calculating hashes to secure the network like in other coins, your computer will be put to work on scientific research.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="34" data-line-end="35"><strong>Crunching</strong>: You can crunch with any computer (Mac, PC, or Linux). To get started crunching and earn your first GRC, we suggest solo mining w/ MRC as it is the simplest way to get started. Check out <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NMdWJGA3ErI">this easy video guide</a> to get started. In short, you must:</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="36" data-line-end="37">Check out <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NMdWJGA3ErI">this easy video guide</a> to get started. In short, you must:</p>
<ul>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="38" data-line-end="39">Download <a href="http://boinc.berkeley.edu">BOINC</a> and attach to project(s) you want to crunch, making sure you enable GDPR/project stats export for those projects which require it. See the <a href="https://gridcoin.us/guides/whitelist.htm">list of approved projects</a> to check if your project does. You can crunch as many projects as you want, all projects must be signed up using the <strong>same e-mail address</strong>. Using an account manager like <a href="http://bam.boincstats.com">BAM</a> can help simplify signing up for multiple projects or assigning different project/work preferences to different machines. When creating accounts through BAM, all accounts will be created with the same e-mail.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="39" data-line-end="40">Download the Gridcoin wallet from <a href="https://gridcoin.us">gridcoin.us</a> and run the solo crunching wizard which will make a beacon for you and direct you to change the username at one of your BOINC projects (one is all you need to change) to verify you really own that account.  This will take &lt;1GRC which you can get for free from our <a href="https://discord.gg/jf9XX4a">discord server</a>, by using a <a href="https://www.gridcoinstats.eu/faucet">faucet</a>, or by by using an exchange. If you have this GRC but receive an error that there are “insufficient” GRC to make a beacon, the GRC you received is probably new and you must wait a half hour or so for it to complete a cooldown before those coins can be used. Your beacon will take up to 48 hours to verify, after which point you should start accumulating rewards. Your rewards will continue to increase for around a week as your RAC (recent average) ramps up.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="40" data-line-end="41">You can crunch on as many device(s) as you want, only one should run the Gridcoin wallet. Just make sure all device(s) crunching are connected to BOINC project(s) using the same e-mail address. The machine with the Gridcoin wallet must have BOINC attached to <strong>all</strong> projects you crunch, but if you don’t want that machine to actually crunch, you can set each project to “no new tasks” in BOINC manager’s advanced view.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="41" data-line-end="42">As accumulated rewards build up (shown in wallet), you can claim them by staking a block or using the MRC (“manual reward claim”) feature to have somebody else stake the block and claim the rewards for you on demand. The fee for this decreases over time, so the longer between MRC claims the cheaper. As you obtain more GRC, your “average time to stake” will decrease so eventually you will just stake automatically without any fees and there will be no need to use MRC. On <em>average</em>, without about $50 USD of Gridcoin in your wallet, you would automatically stake once a month if your wallet is online 24/7. Staking can only happen automatically if you wallet is left open and you are connected to the internet. Staking is based on averages, so sometimes you will go through dry spells and sometimes you will stake more often than “expected”.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="42" data-line-end="43"><strong>Note: If you want to crunch Folding@home</strong>, you must download BOINC and connect to at least one BOINC project as you need to obtain a "CPID" to put into your Folding@home username. Follow the "solo crunching" guide here as usual, then come back to this note to finish the Folding@home setup. Note that when prompted in the solo crunching wizard, you must change your CPID at a BOINC project to verify your beacon. In order to be assigned a CPID and verify the beacon you must earn a negligible amount of credit at a BOINC project by completing one work unit. This will take up to several hours depending on the project. Remember as noted in the solo crunching tutorial that some projects require enabling a setting to export your stats (GDPR). After that, there is no need to crunch BOINC, you can set BOINC projects to "no new tasks" in advanced view on BOINC manager. To get credit for your folding@home work: change your Folding@home username to username_GRC_CPID with username being whatever you want it to be, and CPID being the CPID the wallet solo crunching wizard shows. Note GRC must be ALL CAPS. You are encouraged to setup a passkey for your folding@home account (as you get more rewards) but it is not required.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="43" data-line-end="45">We also encourage you to join the Gridcoin team on each project you are attached to, but it is not required.</li>
</ul>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="45" data-line-end="46">You can use <a href="https://quickmag.ml/cgi-bin/script.cgi">Quickmag</a> to estimate how much GRC per day you can earn with your hardware. Check out the more comprehensive <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/gridcoin/comments/svgjy6/gridcoin_miningcrunching_guide_and_faq_2022/">mining guide</a> for more info.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="47" data-line-end="48"><strong>Staking</strong>: Staking means keeping a balance in your Gridcoin wallet and keeping it online. When you stake, you help secure the network, and the more coins “staked” at once, the more secure the network becomes. You retain full control of your coins while staking, and you can always transfer or use them whenever you want, no lockout periods like other coins! The more coins you have, the more likely you are to stake a new block. For each block you stake, you will earn 10 GRC plus a variable amount of transaction fees. At the time of writing, you will need about 5000 GRC to stake once a month on average.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="49" data-line-end="50"><strong>Participating in the market</strong>: Of course, if you sell products or service online or in-store, consider accepting Gridcoin.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=51 data-line-end=52 ><a id="What_about_getting_it_for_free_How_can_I_get_free_gridcoin_Airdrops_51"></a>What about getting it for free? How can I get free gridcoin? Airdrops?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="53" data-line-end="54">There are several faucets available where you can get gridcoin for free. <a href="https://www.gridcoinstats.eu/faucet">Gridcoinstats</a> is probably the most popular one, followed by the one on our <a href="https://discord.gg/jf9XX4a">discord server</a>. Faucets are a great way to try out the coin and get started. Coins are also occasionally “rained” (similar to airdropping) on crunchers working on various projects or people active in the discord, there’s no way to predict when these happen but some very generous members of the community make sure they happen at least sometimes.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=55 data-line-end=56 ><a id="Im_confused_where_can_I_get_help_55"></a>I’m confused, where can I get help?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="57" data-line-end="58">Crypto is confusing for everybody at first! Our <a href="https://discord.gg/jf9XX4a">discord server</a> is probably the easiest and fastest way to get help, just jump on the #help channel and say hello. Everybody answering your questions will be a volunteer, taking time out of their day to help you, and they’re happy to! Please check the Gridcoin website and do your best to answer the question before asking it, letting people know you have tried to solve it yourself but got stuck will increase the chance that somebody will volunteer to help and helps prevent volunteer burnout.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=59 data-line-end=60 ><a id="What_is_the_total_supply_of Gridcoin_59"></a>What is the total supply of Gridcoin?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="61" data-line-end="62">The current total supply is around 400 Million, like other proof of stake coins, the supply is gradually increased to reward those who keep the network running and contribute to science. Gridcoin is not sold by the devs and was not pre-distributed through any kind of ICO, we aim to keep distribution fair and based on one’s contribution to scientific projects.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=63 data-line-end=64 ><a id="Where_to_find_out_more_about Gridcoin_63"></a>Where to find out more about Gridcoin?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="65" data-line-end="66">Here are the best places to find out more:</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="67" data-line-end="68">Promotional website (great intro material on gridcoin) <a href="https://gridcause.org">gridcause.org</a></p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="69" data-line-end="70"><strong>Main websites:</strong> <a href="https://gridcoin.us"><strong>gridcoin.us</strong></a> and <a href="https://gridcoin.world">gridcoin.world</a></p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="71" data-line-end="72">Fireside <a href="https://www.gridcoin.science/">Podcast</a> (great, accessible, fun way to learn about how Gridcoin and DeSci work)</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="73" data-line-end="74"><strong>Whitepaper:</strong> <a href="https://gridcoin.us/assets/docs/whitepaper.pdf"><strong>https://gridcoin.us/assets/docs/whitepaper.pdf</strong></a></p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="75" data-line-end="76"><strong>Network/Block explorer:</strong> <a href="https://www.gridcoinstats.eu/">https://www.gridcoinstats.eu/</a></p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="77" data-line-end="78"><strong>Social media channels:</strong></p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="79" data-line-end="80"><a href="https://twitter.com/GridcoinNetwork">twitter</a> <a href="https://www.facebook.com/Gridcoins">facebook</a> <a href="https://discord.gg/jf9XX4a">discord</a> <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/teamgridcoin/shared_invite/enQtMjk2NTI4MzAwMzg0LTUzMmY0YjdiNzYxYzQ0MDc3MGE1NjQ3Nzg2NWMzZTUzMjAwZjdhMWI1YWUzMDE4YzQyZjVjMjMzOTc1M2RmMmM/">slack</a></p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=81 data-line-end=82 ><a id="Are_there_other_interesting_Gridcoin_projectswebsites_81"></a>Are there other interesting Gridcoin projects/websites?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="83" data-line-end="84">There are tons of cool projects that use Gridcoin in some way, but not all are listed here, discovering them is part of the fun! But just to get you started, there is:</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="85" data-line-end="86"><a href="https://stamp.gridcoin.club/">Gridcoin Stamper</a> - A free proof-of-existence service where you can digitally “stamp” a document such as a PDF and proof of the stamp will be stored permanently in the Gridcoin blockchain. You can use this to prove you published something (like a scientific paper) at a particular point in time, or that you had knowledge of a scientific breakthrough but didn’t publish at the time due to fears of censorship or simply not having your full paper put together yet.</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="87" data-line-end="88">Gridcoin <a href="https://tip.arikado.ru/">Tipbot</a>: See the tip-bot section of this FAQ</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=89 data-line-end=90 ><a id="How_do_I_sendreceive_tips_89"></a>How do I send/receive tips?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="91" data-line-end="92">Tips are one of the many ways you’ll find our community is welcoming and friendly! If you make a useful post or comment, don’t be surprised if some people tip you :).</p>
<ul>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="93" data-line-end="94">If somebody sends you a tip, you will receive a message from /u/grc_tip_bot letting you know and it will make an account for you.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="94" data-line-end="95">To send a tip, simply reply to a comment or post with /u/grc_tip_bot {amount} and they will receive a tip. You must have GRC in your tip bot account to do this.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="95" data-line-end="96">To add GRC to your tipbot balance, <a href="https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=%2Fu%2Fgrc_tip_bot">message /u/grc_tip_bot</a> with the message “address” (without quotes) and it will give you an address to deposit GRC to. It may take a few minutes for the deposit to register. Note that you must send a reddit <em>message</em>, not a <em>chat</em>. We know it’s confusing. Blame reddit.</li>
<li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="96" data-line-end="98">You can only send/receive tips on /r/gridcoin</li>
  <li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="96" data-line-end="98">To withdraw your balance <a href="https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=%2Fu%2Fgrc_tip_bot">send a message</a> with the body withdraw addresshere amounthere</li>
  <li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="96" data-line-end="98">There are more commands you can do, <a href="https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=%2Fu%2Fgrc_tip_bot">send a message to /u/grc_tip_bot</a> with the body "help" for more information.</li>
  <li class="has-line-data" data-line-start="96" data-line-end="98">Note the GRC tip bot may take several minutes to respond to commands</li>
</ul>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=98 data-line-end=99 ><a id="How_can_I_contribute_to_Gridcoin_98"></a>How can I contribute to Gridcoin?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="100" data-line-end="101">You can contribute to Gridcoin by crunching, staking, participating in development, or participating in promotion. Most of this discussion takes place on our <a href="https://discord.gg/jf9XX4a">Discord</a> and <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/teamgridcoin/shared_invite/enQtMjk2NTI4MzAwMzg0LTUzMmY0YjdiNzYxYzQ0MDc3MGE1NjQ3Nzg2NWMzZTUzMjAwZjdhMWI1YWUzMDE4YzQyZjVjMjMzOTc1M2RmMmM/">Slack</a>. You can also donate to the <a href="https://gridcoin.us/wiki/foundation.html">GRC foundation wallet,</a> which helps fund Gridcoin’s development</p>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="102" data-line-end="103">And of course, tell your friends! Gridcoin is a massively under-appreciated coin in the crypto space and we need your help to grow :). If you know any scientists who lack access to computational power, let them know that Gridcoin can help.</p>
<h1 class="code-line" data-line-start=104 data-line-end=105 ><a id="How_come_my_favorite_BOINC_project_isnt_on_the_list_of_approved_projects_104"></a>How come my favorite BOINC project isn’t on the list of approved projects?</h1>
<p class="has-line-data" data-line-start="106" data-line-end="107">In order to be on the list of approved projects, a project must meet certain criteria. They must have a large, constant volume of work (so every cruncher has an opportunity to participate), they must reward that work fairly (no cruncher should be able to game the system), and the project must agree to be incentivized by Gridcoin. Plus, the project must be approved by a community poll on the Gridcoin blockchain. <strong>Gridcoin has approached every major BOINC project</strong>, so if your project is not listed, there is probably a good reason for it.</p>
